# Wildlife Tracker

#### By **[JOSEPH MAINA](https://github.com/JOSEPHMAINA1995)**

## Description

This is a web application that helps the Rangers to track wild animals in an area. The ranger will be able to record each animal sighted in the area by providing details like animals name, Id etc. The Rangers are also tasked to identify the endangered animals by proving their details like ID, name,health status and age.  This will help to get the total information of all the animals in the forest before enacting to a proposal to clear cut the forest.

## Setup/Installation Requirements

- Make sure you have stable internet connection- Wifi or Cellular. Connect using your Mobile phone or Computer.
- To access the application, form the repository by clicking the form button. Go ahead to clone it on your local machine.
- use git clone command followed by the link: 
* git clone https://github.com/JOSEPHMAINA1995/WildLife-Tracker.git
- After succesfully cloning, open the application on Intellij

## Database Set Up
 
 * Type in psql
* CREATE DATABASE wildlife_tracker;
\c wildlife_tracker;
CREATE TABLE animals(
    id int GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY PRIMARY KEY,
    name varchar,
    health varchar,
    age varchar
);

* CREATE TABLE sightings(
      id int GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY PRIMARY KEY,
      location varchar,
      ranger varchar
);

* \dt to view the tables
* SELECT * FROM animals; - retrieves the animals table
* SELECT * FROM sightings; -retrieves the sightings table

* CREATE DATABASE wildlife_tracker_test WITH TEMPLATE wildlife_tracker;
* \c wildlife_tracker_test;

## Contribution
You may also want to contribute to enhance a functionality:
* Fork the repository to your github account
* Create a new branch (git switch -c ft-development)
* Make the changes you intend
* Add changes to reflect the changes made
* Commit your changes (git commit -m 'additional info')
* Push to the branch (git push origin ft-develop)
* Create a Pull Request.

## Contribution
The user cannot update Animals unless they delete and add it again.



## Behavior Driven Development(BDD)

The user is able to;

* Run the App on a browser

* Click on Add animal, Add endangered Animal or Add a sight options on the landing page. 

* fill the form after the option selected above..

* view All the added animals and sights using the nav bar links


## Technologies Used

* Java - source language.

* Gradle for dependency management and running tasks.

* Bootstrap.

* Maven

* Cascading Style Sheets.
 

### License


MIT License
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.<br>

Copyright (c) 2022 **JOSEPH MAINA**
